---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1860.tif
WMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1860/wmts
pngWMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1860/wmts/png
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1860/{z}/{y}/{x}
pngLegacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/png/1860/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Residency
shortname: ca. 1860
year: ca. 1860
gcp: /gcp/1860_gcp.txt
extent:
  [
    103.79951477050781,
    1.2296876901489355,
    103.91143798828124,
    1.3511930983018914,
  ]
---

## Description

Singapore residency map.

## Credits

This map was produced by J. Moniot, Surveyor General of the Straits Settlements, printed and published by Smith Elder and Co, London, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng.

## Suggested Citation

Jules M. Moniot [ca. 1860]. Singapore Residency, Scale unclear. London: Smith, Elder and Co. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done with SVY21 projection.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions while satellite imagery was used for geomorphological features.

3. 23/251 GCPs are of road junctions

   - Road networks on the map (South Singapore), where most junctions are found, are located in the Raffles Place and Bugis districts.
   - Junctions are uncommon outside these areas and if they do appear, are no longer in existence today. Those used (and are still present today) are junctions of major roads today like Paya Lebar Road, Macpherson and Serangoon Road.
   - Roads in Sentosa have changed altogether and hence were not used.
   - No legend was given but roads highlighted in pink were preferred in georeferencing as they were major roads that still exist today.

4. 2/25 GCPs are of geomorphological features

   - They are the southern tip of Labrador Park and the western tip of Sentosa Island, the only features that have not been altered or reclaimed to date.
   - In general, hills and coastlines were not used as they may be levelled or reclaimed, respectively, to accommodate development since 1846.

5. Transformation Method (25 GCPs)

   - First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.000344659

     Roads on map align well with OSM base layer

   - 2nd order polynomial - RMSE: 0.000286082

     Not much difference in terms of alignment with the affine transformation.

   - Spline

     Roads in CBD do not align properly compared to the former two methods (see Outram Road)

6. Issues

   - Important to note, no GCPs were placed on the eastern corner of the map on purpose, east of +103.893DD, as that portion of map does not appear to align with the main map.
   - For example, Tanjong Katong Road is suddenly sheared south. However, the other features of the map like Tanah Merah Road and the Table seems to line up fine.
   - It was decided that it is not worth the risk of distorting the map further by placing GCPs there as there are no features there reliable enough to.

7. Additional notes

   - Other transformation methods produced maps that were wrapped and distorted beyond recognition, especially in the south-eastern quadrant as there are no GCPs placed there (area of map occupied by “The Strangers’ Guide to the Environs of Singapore”).
