---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1911.tif
TMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1911/{z}/{y}/{x}
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/1911/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Map of the Island of Singapore and its Dependencies
shortname: 1911
year: 1911
scale: 1:63,360
gcp: /gcp/1911_gcp.txt
---

## Description

This map shows Singapore with detail on networks of roads, water features, surrounding islands and boundaries of the various districts. The coastline of Territory of Johore along the Old Strait or Silat Tembrau is also shown.

## Credits

This map was produced by the Geographical Section, General Staff, Singapore, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng.

## Suggested Citation

Geographical Section, General Staff 1911. Map of the Island of Singapore and its Dependencies, 1:63,360. [London]: War Office. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done with SVY21 projection.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions while satellite imagery was used for geomorphological features.

3. 18/28 GCPs are of road junctions

   - Road junctions georectified were primarily those of main roads radiating from the CBD as the small scale map made junctions in the CBD difficult to discern.
   - Further, crowded labelling of roads in the CBD obscured junctions.
   - According to the map legend (References), although some ‘Cart Tracks and Foot Paths’ lined up closely with modern roads, they were not georeferenced ue to their temporary and easily altered nature.
   - Overall, the road network shown on the map is unreliable and not extensive enough, especially in western Singapore, and must be supplemented by geomorphological GCPs for accurate georeferencing.

4. 10/28 GCPs are of geomorphological features

   - Unreclaimed coastlines of mainland Singapore and various offshore islands were used for georeferencing.
   - Offshore islands in the south were used to ensure an even spread of GCPs.
   - The west coast of Singapore had no GCPs as the entire coastline had been altered to accommodate the western catchment.

5. Transformation Method (27 GCPs)

   - First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.000850189

     Coastlines in the north and main roads radiating from the CBD line up well.

   - Spline

     A spline transformation results are satisfactory as the roads and coastlines on mainland Singapore line up well.

6. Issues

   - The shorelines of offshore islands were not drawn very accurately (P. Tekong Kechil and P. Pawai).
   - Labelling of map features (especially roads) were poorly done as it obstructed them.

7. Additional notes

   - It was decided that the coastline of Johor should not be used for georectification because the land survey used to derive this map focused on Singapore and coastlines of Johor may not be accurately drawn, which may affect the results of the georectification.
