---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1953.tif
WMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1953/wmts
pngWMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1953/wmts/png
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1953/{z}/{y}/{x}
pngLegacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/png/1954/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Maps
shortname: 1953
year: 1953
scale: 1:25:000
gcp: /gcp/1953_gcp.zip
extent:
  [
    103.61618041992186,
    1.1054306811091266,
    104.11193847656249,
    1.4898528301783642,
  ]
---

## Description

A mosaic of 12 sheets of topographical maps of Singapore:

Sheet 1 (Lim Chu Kang): This map shows northwestern Singapore and its coastline along the Johore Strait. The Johore coastline is also shown. Major features and areas shown in this map include Lim Chu Kang, Kranji, Sungei Buloh and Lim Chu Kang Road.

Sheet 2 (Sembawang): This map shows the northern region of Singapore, with the coastlines of Singapore Johore along the Johore Strait, together with the state border. Major features and areas shown in the map include North Seletar/South Seletar, Sembawang, Mandai, Kranji, Causeway and Sungei Kranji, Sungei Sembawang, Sungei Simpang Kiri, Sungei Mandai, Sungei Mandai Kechil, Sungei Seletar, Sungei Pang Sua, Sungei Jelutong, Sungei Pasir and Sungei Segar.

Sheet 3 (Seletar): This map shows Seletar, the northern region of Singapore. The coastline of Singapore and Johore is shown in this map, together with the state boundary along the Johore Strait. Major features include Sungei Seletar, Sungei Punggol, Sungei Simpang and Sungei Khatib Bongsu. Areas shown in the map include Bunggol, South Seletar, North Seletar, Teban, Ang Mo Kio and Sembawang.

Sheet 4 (Changi): The map covers north-eastern and eastern Singapore, showing the Singapore and Johore coastline along the Straits of Singapore, Serangoon Harbour and the Johore Straits, together with the state boundary. The islands Pulau Ubin, Pulau Serangoon, Pulau Ketam and Pulau Sekudu are also shown in the map. Some features on the map include Tampines, Punggol, Bedok, Tampines Road, Changi Road, Changi Village, then proposed Paya Lebar international airport under construction.

Sheet 5 (Pulau Tekong):This map shows the island of Pulau Tekong that lies northeast to mainland Singapore, along with its surrounding islands. Part of the Johore coastline is also shown, together with the state boundary along the Johore Strait.

Sheet 6 (Jurong): This map shows western Singapore, covering the regions such as Peng Kang, Tuas, Bajau, Kranji, Lim Chu Kang and Choa Chu Kang. The coastline is also shown in the map, together with the state boundary in the Johore Strait and islands P.Samulun, P. Merlimau, P. Damar Laut. Waterbodies displayed include Selat Sembilan, Sungei Jurong, Selat Pulau Damar and Sungei Tengeh.

Sheet 7 (Bukit Timah): This map covers areas of Bukit Timah, Ulu Pandan, Choa Chu Kang, Bukit Gombak, Ulu Pandan, Bukit Panjang Village, Upper Mandai, Jurong, Kranji, Mandai, Sembawang, Ulu kallang, Bt Brown, Upper Thomson, Toa Payoh and Telok Blanga. Sungei Pandan is shown in the map as well. Major features include the Bukit Timah Nature Reserve, MacRitchie Reservoir, Dunearn Road and Bukit Timah Road.

Sheet 8 (Singapore City): This map covers the Singapore City area, including areas such as Paya Lebar, Toa Payoh, Orchard, Balestier, Kg Bugis, Kg Potong Pasir, Geylang, Ang Mo Kio, Thomson, Serangoon, Yio Chu Kang, Saranggong and Kalang. Various rivers are also shown, such as the Kalang River, Sungei Whompoe and Geylang River.

Sheet 9 (Siglap): This map covers the southeastern part of Singapore, including parts of Siglap, Chai Chee, Somapah Changi Village, Kg Padang Terbakar, Kg Ayer Gemuruh, Mata Ikan Village, Tg Meng Kwang, Bedok Village, Bedok, Ulu Bedok, Changi. The coastline is also shown in the map.

Sheet 10 (Southern Province Islands): This map covers the southwestern islands of Singapore, including islands Pulau Ayer Chawan, Pulau Ayer Merbau, Pulau Pesek, Pulau Merlimau, Pulau Buaya, Pulau Mesemut Laut, Pulau Mesemut Darat, Pulau Meskol, Pulau Seraya, Pulau Seburus Dalam, Pulau Seburus Luar, Pulau Sakra, Pulau Bakau, Pulau Busing, Pulau Ular, Pulau Bukum, Pulau Bukum Kechil, Pulau Hantu and Selat Pandan.

Sheet 11: The map shows the city area of Pasir Panjang and Telok Blangah mukim which consist of Henderson, Alexandra, Shenton Way, Ayer Rajah and Tiong Bahru . The southern coastline is shown in the map, along with islands Pulau Subar Darat, Pulau Subar Laut, Pulau Sakijang, Pulau Sakijang Pelepah, Pulau Tembakul, Pulau Seringat/Pulau Rengat, Pulau Tembakul, Pulau Terkukor/Pulau Penyabong, Pulau Blakang Mati, Pulau Selegu, Pulau Renggis, Pulau Brani, Pulau Hantu.

Sheet 12: This map displays most of the Southern Islands of Singapore, including islands such as Pulau Senang, Pulau Biola, Pulau Satumu, Pulau Pawai, Pulau Berkas, Pulau Sudong, Pulau Salu, Pulau Semakau, Pulau Sakeng, Pulau Sebarok, Pulau Jong, Pulau Senang, Pulau Biola, Pulau Satumu, Pulau Berkas, Pulau Semakau and Pulau Sakeng. The map also shows the state boundary of Singapore, and the various Straits between the islands.

## Credits

The maps were produced by the Surveyor General, Malaya, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS), georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng, and mosaicked by NUS Libraries, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Surveyor General, Malaya 1953. Singapore (Sheet 1 to 12), 1:25,000. [Kuala Lumpur]: [Survey Department Federation of Malaya]. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.
