---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1958.tif
WMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1958/wmts
pngWMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1958/wmts/png
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1958/{z}/{y}/{x}
pngLegacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/png/1958/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Map
shortname: 1958
year: 1958
scale: 1:63,360
gcp: /gcp/1958_gcp.txt
extent:
  [
    103.54888916015625,
    1.1809466476065325,
    104.07348632812499,
    1.5324100450044398,
  ]
---

## Series, Edition

Series GSGS 4923, Edition 1-GSGS

## Description

This map shows the entire Singapore with detail on contours, networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation. The coastline of Johore along the Straits of Johore is also shown.

Map covers the Johore (Johor) Strait, parts of Punggol, Ulu Bedok, Bedok, Changi, Pulau Ubin, Pulau Serangoon and other surrounding islands.

It shows Gammon Malaya Quarry, other granite quarries and fisheries reserves in Pulau Ubin, Public Works Department Labourers Lines, Handicapped Childrens’ Home, Maternity and Children’s Welfare Centre and government bungalows in Changi, Ubin Estate, Ong Ting Lye Estate, Wah Hong Estate, Tampines Estate, Bukit Sembawang Estate, Hun Yeang Village, Kampong Noordin, Pasir Ris Village, Kampong Loyang, Yan Kit Village, Changi Village, proposed international airport under construction, residential development areas, cemeteries, industry sites, rural areas, Sungei Serangoon, Sungei Tampines, streams and rivers, existing and proposed community and public utility facilities, roads and other land use.

## Credits

This map was prepared under the direction of the Assistant Director of Survey, Far East Land Forces, surveyed by 84 Field Survey Squadron RE and the Singapore Survey Department, compiled and drawn by S70 Map Reproduction Troop RE and the Singapore Survey Department. It was scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS) and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Assistant Director of Survey, Far East Land Forces 1958. Singapore, 1:63,360. Series GSGS 4923, Sheet Singapore, Edition 1-GSGS. [Singapore]: War Office & Air Ministry. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.
