---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1969.tif
TMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1969/{z}/{y}/{x}
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/1969/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Map
shortname: 1969
year: 1969
scale: 1:63,360
gcp: /gcp/1969_gcp.txt
extent:
  [
    103.58459472656251,
    1.1260261406858234,
    104.11468505859374,
    1.5049538726941876,
  ]
---

## Series, Edition

Singapore Series 1, Edition 1

## Description

Topographical map of Singapore.

## Credits

This map was published by Chief Surveyor, Singapore, prepared under the direction of the Assistant Director of Survey, Far East Land Forces, by 84 Field Survey Squadron RE, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS), and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Chief Surveyor, Singapore 1969. Singapore, 1:63,360. Singapore Series 1, Edition 1. [Singapore]: War Office & Air Ministry. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done with SVY21 projection.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions.

3. Results (30 GCPs)

   - First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.00043913
   - All GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

4. Issues

   - .tif images may be assigned SVY21 GCS whilst .jpg images cannot.
   - Maps are more cluttered as the island of Singapore becomes increasingly urbanized.
   - Road colours tend to exceed boundary of sides that makes identifying corners of junctions difficult and island boundaries are not printed accurately.
