---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1971.tif
TMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1971/{z}/{y}/{x}
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/1971/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Map
shortname: 1971
year: 1971
scale: 1:63,360
gcp: /gcp/1971_gcp.txt
---

## Series, Edition

Series Topo 1, Edition 1-SMU

## Description

This map shows the entire Singapore with detail on networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation.

It also covers Jurong, Pandan, Pasir Panjang, Telok Blanga (Blangah), Toa Payoh, South Seletar, Mandai, Kranji, Bukit Timah and Tanglin.

It shows Huat Hong Village, Bukit Panjang Village, Bukit Timah Village, Pasir Panjang Village, Holland Village, Chasseriau Estate I and II, Kilburn Estate, National Carbon and Central Refinery in Princess Elizabeth Estate, Princess Margaret Estate, granite quarries including Gammon Granite Quarry, Singapore Granite Quarries, Hindhede Qaurry, Public Works Department Quarry, Nanyang Shoes Factory, Chua Guan Hong Rubber Factory and Hock Thong Rubber Factory in Jurong, Lam Soon Cannery Factory, sewerage disposal site in Pandan, Peirce Reservoir, MacRitchie Reservoir, Pandan Nature Reserve, catchment areas, Bukit Batok, Bukit Tinggi, Mount Echo, Proposed new planning of roads, railway line, rivers, existing and proposed community and public utility facilities and others.

The coastline of Johor along the Straits of Johor is also shown.

## Credits

This map was produced by the Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence, Singapore, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS), and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence 1971. Singapore, 1:63,360. Series Topo 1, Sheet Singapore, Edition 1-SMU. Singapore: Ministry of Defence. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done with SVY21 projection.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions while satellite imagery was used for geomorphological features.

3. 37/43 GCPs are of road junctions

   - Road network printed on the topographic map closely resembles modern roads, especially in mature estates like Queenstown, Bukit Timah and Geylang Serai.
   - Road end points along stable coastlines also served as GCPs in Kranji an Punggol.
   - Junctions of ‘Main Roads’ (as per map legend) served as reliable control points as roads lower in heirachy are too faint on map or may be temporary in nature such as tracks and footpaths.
   - GCPs were not placed along the runway of Paya Lebar Airport as the runway has been heavily modified (lengthened and expanded) when converted to a military airbase.

4. 8/45 GCPs are of geomorphological features

   - Coastlines of offshore islands like P. Tekong, P. Ubin and the southern islands were used as GCPs as they are not subject to much modification compared to the coastline of mainland Singapore.
   - GCPs were not placed on stippled coastlines as the exact boundary of the coastline is difficult to ascertain. Coastlines marked with a distinct blue line were preferred.

5. Transformation Method (45 GCPs)

   - First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.000296864

     Coastlines of Singapore and its offshore islands as well as road networks line up properly.

   - 3rd order polynomial - RMSE: 0.000243437

     Not much wrap involved which may distort the map as GCPs were evenly spaced throughout the map.

6. Issues

   - Areas in Tampines and Tuas were still undeveloped and hence lacked GCPs as there was no stable points of references there. i.e. The hills in Tampines would have been levelled and land in Tuas reclaimed from the sea.

7. Additional notes

   - Coastlines of offshore islands were more accurately drawn compared to the 1911 map of Singapore due to development and military interest in them.
