---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/1974.tif
TMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/1974/{z}/{y}/{x}
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/1974/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Map
shortname: 1974 (1:75,000)
year: 1974
scale: 1:75,000
gcp: /gcp/1974_gcp.txt
---

## Series, Edition

Series SMU 075, Edition 1 SMU

## Description

This map shows Singapore with detail on networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation. The coastline of Johor along the Straits of Johor is also shown.

## Credits

This map was produced by the Mapping Branch, Ministry of Defence, Singapore, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS), and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence 1974. Singapore, 1:75,000. Series SMU 075, Sheet Singapore, Edition 1 SMU. Singapore: Ministry of Defence. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done with SVY21 projection.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions.

3. Results (30 GCPs)

   - First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.000182124
   - All GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

4. Issues

   - .tif images may be assigned SVY21 GCS whilst .jpg images cannot.
   - Maps are more cluttered as the island of Singapore becomes increasingly urbanized.
   - Road colours tend to exceed boundary of sides that makes identifying corners of junctions difficult and island boundaries are not printed accurately.
