---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/2002.tif
TMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/2002/{z}/{y}/{x}
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/2002/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Map
shortname: 2002
year: 2002
scale: 1:50,000
gcp: /gcp/2002_gcp.txt
extent:
  [
    103.60382080078125,
    1.158978572236819,
    104.05975341796875,
    1.4774973547127246,
  ]
---

## Series, Edition

Series SMU 075, Edition 7

## Description

This map shows Singapore with detail on networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation. The coastline of Johor along the Straits of Johor is also shown. Pulau Tekong is shown in an inset.

## Credits

This map was produced by the Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence, Singapore, scanned by Sakinah Yusof, Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS), and georeferenced by Leon Gaw Yan Feng, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence 2002. Singapore, 1:50,000. Series SMU 075, Sheet 1, Edition 7. Singapore: SO Publication, Ministry of Defence. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done on a data frame with WGS_1984_Web_Mercator_Auxiliary_Sphere projected coordinate system.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions while satellite imagery was used for geomorphological features.

3. Results (30 GCPs)

   - First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 14.8663
   - 28/30 GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.
   - /30 GCPs are of geomorphological features like coastlines of Pulau Senang and St. John’s Island.

4. Issues

   - SVY_21 could not be assigned to .jpg images as these would result in an inconsistent extent.

     This problem did not occur with ArcGIS 10.2.

     The problem may also be a result of .jpg file format instead of .tiff.

   - Maps are more cluttered as the island of Singapore becomes increasingly urbanized.
   - 1974 maps had geographic information of Johor and some road junctions there were used for georectification.
   - Road intersections were the primary GCP used as the maps are more current and matches well with OSM data.
