---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/2005.tif
TMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/2005/{z}/{y}/{x}
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/2005/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Maps
shortname: 2005 (1:25:000)
year: 2005
scale: 1:25,000
gcp: /gcp/2005_gcp.zip
extent:
  [
    103.60794067382811,
    1.0628662816327363,
    104.13391113281251,
    1.4871071749321487,
  ]
---

## Series, Edition

Series L802, Edition 10 SMU

## Description

A mosaic of 6 sheets of topographical maps of Singapore: Sheet 1 (Lim Chu Kang): This map shows the northwestern region of Singapore and the coastline along Straits of Johore, with the state boundary included. Major regions and features in the map include Ama Keng, Lim Chu Kang, Chua Chu Kang, Kranji Reservoir, Mandai, Woodlands, Upper Seletar Reservoir, Upper Pierce Reservoir, Upper Bukit Timah, Jurong West and Jurong East. Also shows the restricted Live Firing Area for Military training.

Sheet 2 (Tampines): This map shows the northeast region of Singapore, its coastline and state boundary along the Straits of Johore, Pulau Ubin and its surrounding islands (Pulau Ketam, Pulau Sekudu, Coney Island,Pulau Punggol Timur and Pulau Punggol Barat). Johore and its coastline is shown in the map as well. Major regions and features in the map include Punggol, Sembawang, Lower Seletar Reservoir, Lower Pierce Reservoir, MacRitchie Reservoir, Sin Ming, Ang Mo Kio, Paya Lebar, Sengkang, Punggol, Hougang, Bishan, Yishun, Tampines, Pasir Ris, Changi Airport , Changi, Loyang and Serangoon.

Sheet 3 (Pulau Tekong): This map shows the island of Pulau Tekong and its surrounding islands Pulau Sajahat and Pulau Sajahat Kechil, Pulau Semechek, Pulau Unum and Pulau Damien that lies northeast to mainland Singapore. The coastline of Johore and Pulau Tekong are shown in this map, along with major waterways of the Straits of Johore, Straits of Singapore and the state boundary. Major toppgraphical features of Pulau Tekong are displayed in the map, such as Pulau Tekong Reservoir and various estates.

Sheet 4 (Jurong): The map shows the south-western region of Singapore . The south-western coastline of Singapore is shown in this map, with the major waterways of Selat Jurong, Selat Pandan, Selat Pesek, Selat Sakra, Selat Bukom, Selat Salu and Selat Samulun as shown. Major islands displayed in the map include Jurong Island, Pulau Bukom and other smaller islands. Major features and regions displayed in this map include Jurong Industrial Estate, Chua Chu Kang, Upper Jurong Road, Jurong Town, Taman Jurong, Tuas, Teban Garden, Pandan Reservoir, Pasir Panjang, Queenstown, Clementi and Bukit Timah.

Sheet 5 (Bedok): The map shows the south-eastern region of Singapore. The south-eastern coast line of Singapore fronting the Straits of Singapore is shown as well. Major regions and features in the map include the Changi Business Park, Singapore Changi Airport, MRT Lines, Bedok Police Division HQ, Bedok Industrial Park, Paya Ubi Industrial Park, Tai Seng Industrial Park, Defu Industrial Estate, UBI Technolink, Kaki Bukit TechPark and Industrial Park, Eunos Industrial Estate, Kg Ubi Industrial Estate, along with residential estates like Old kallang Airport estate, Marine Parade, Siglap, Tanah Merah, Bedok, East Coast Park, Changi and Tanah Merah. An inset of Pedra Branca is included.

Sheet 7 (Southern Islands): This map shows the Southern Islands of Singapore, together with the state boundary with Indonesia demarcated. Major islands shown in the map include Pulau Semakau, Pulau Sebarok, Pulau Sakeng and the off-limit Live Firing Area of Pulau Sudong, Pulau Pawai Pulau Berkas, Pulau Biola and Pulau Senang in the Straits of Singapore.

## Credits

The maps were produced by the Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence, Singapore, scanned, georeferenced by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS) and mosaicked by NUS Libraries, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence 2005. Singapore, 1:25,000. Series L802, Sheet 1 to 5 and 7, Edition 10 SMU. Singapore: Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done on a data frame with SVY21 geographic coordinate system.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions while satellite imagery was used for geomorphological features.

3. Results

   - 2005 Sheet 1 (20 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.00006.21022

     All GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

   - 2005 Sheet 2 (20 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.000223565

     All GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

   - 2005 Sheet 3 (15 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.0000 811761

     12/15 GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points (jetties) or inflexions.

     2/15 GCPs are of geomorphological features (coastline of Pulau Tekong).

     1/15 GCP is of a swimming pool.

   - 2005 Sheet 4 (20 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.0000 593412

     All GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

   - 2005 Sheet 5 (20 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.0000 521827

     All GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

   - 2005 Sheet 7

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 0.0000440331

     13/20 GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points (jetties) or inflexions.

     7/20 GCPs are of geomorphological features (coastline of Southern Islands).

4. Issues

   - SVY_21 could not be assigned to .jpg images as these would result in an inconsistent extent.

   - The problem is a result of .jpg file format instead of .tiff.

5. Notes

   - 2005 Sheet 6 was not georeferenced as the area covers only sea.
