---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/2005_50K.tif
WMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/2005_50K/wmts
pngWMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/2005_50K/wmts/png
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/2005_50K/{z}/{y}/{x}
pngLegacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/png/2005_50K/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Maps
shortname: 2005 (1:50,000)
year: 2005
scale: 1:50,000
gcp: /gcp/2005_50K_gcp.zip
extent:
  [103.546142578125, 1.10405764536209, 104.161376953125, 1.5324100450044398]
---

## Series, Edition

Series L7022, Edition 7B SMU

## Description

A mosaic of 2 sheets of topographical maps of Singapore:

Sheet 1(Singapore West): This map shows Western Singapore with detail on networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation. The coastline of Johor along the Straits of Johor is also shown.

Sheet 2 (Singapore East): This map shows Eastern Singapore with detail on networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation. The coastline of Johor along the Straits of Johor is also shown. Pedra Branca is shown in an inset.

## Credits

The maps were produced by the Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence, Singapore, scanned, georeferenced by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS) and mosaicked by NUS Libraries, with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence 2005. Singapore, 1:50,000. Series L7022, Sheet 1 to 2, Edition 7B SMU. Singapore: Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.

## Georeferencing Notes

1. Georeferencing done on a data frame with WGS_1984_Web_Mercator_Auxiliary_Sphere projected coordinate system.

2. Openstreet map (OSM) basemap was used for georeferencing road junctions while satellite imagery was used for geomorphological features.

3. Results

   - 2005 East (20 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 12.3122

     19/20 GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

     1/20 GCPs are of geomorphological features (coastline of Kusu Island).

   - 2005 West (22 GCPs)

     First order polynomial (Affine Transformation) - RMSE: 9.93104

     21/22 GCPs are of road features like junctions, end points or inflexions.

     1/22 GCPs are of geomorphological features (coastline of Pulau Senang).

4. Issues

   - SVY_21 could not be assigned to .jpg images as these would result in an inconsistent extent.

     This problem did not occur with ArcGIS 10.2.

     The problem may also be a result of .jpg file format instead of .tiff.

   - Maps are more cluttered as the island of Singapore becomes increasingly urbanized.
   - 1974 maps had geographic information of Johor and some road junctions there were used for georectification.
   - Road intersections were the primary GCP used as the maps are more current and matches well with OSM data.
