---
cogurl: https://d39hmjnw8fb16p.cloudfront.net/2010.tif
WMTSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/services/2010/wmts
legacyTMSurl: https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg/gis/rest/services/Sing_Hist_Maps/2010/MapServer/tile/{z}/{y}/{x}
title: Singapore Topographical Map
shortname: 2010
year: 2010
scale: 1:50,000
gcp: /gcp/2010_gcp.txt
extent:
  [
    103.60382080078125,
    1.1287721910265276,
    104.05975341796875,
    1.4802430218865084,
  ]
---

## Series, Edition

Series SMU 075, Edition 9

## Description

This map shows the entire Singapore with detail on networks of roads and railways, international boundaries, water features, relief, buildings and vegetation. The coastline of Johor along the Straits of Johor is also shown. Pedra Branca and Pulau Tekong are shown in insets.

Central Region: Bishan, Bukit Merah, Bukit Timah, Novena, Potong Pasir, Queenstown, Tanglin, Tiong Bahru, Toa Payoh, Southern Islands, Bras Basah, Chinatown, Downtown Core, Marina Bay, Marina Centre, Marina East, Marina South, Newton, Orchard, Outram, Raffles Place, River Valley, Rochor, Tanjong Pagar.

East Region: Bedok, Changi, Changi Bay, Changi East, Changi Village, Geylang, Kallang, Kallang Bahru, Katong, Marine Parade, Paya Lebar, Pasir Ris, Siglap, Tampines, Tampines North, Ubi.

North Region: Central Water Catchment, Lim Chu Kang, Mandai, Sembawang, Simpang, Sungei Kadut, Woodlands, Yishun.

North-East Region: Ang Mo Kio, Hougang, North-eastern Islands, Punggol, Seletar, Sengkang, Senoko, Serangoon, Serangoon Gardens, Serangoon North.

West Region: Bukit Batok, Bukit Panjang, Boon Lay, Bulim, Choa, Chu Kang, Clementi, Joo Koon, Jurong East, Jurong West, Tengah, Tuas, Tuas South, Western Islands, Western Water Catchment.

## Credits

The maps were produced by the Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence, Singapore, scanned and georeferenced by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore (NUS), with kind permission from Singapore Land Authority and Ministry of Defence for NUS Libraries to provide viewing of the map service over the internet.

## Suggested Citation

Mapping Unit, Ministry of Defence 2010. Singapore, 1:50,000. Series SMU 075, Sheet 1, Edition 9. Singapore: SO Publication, Ministry of Defence. In: "Historical Maps of Singapore, digitised by Department of Geography, National University of Singapore, made available by NUS Libraries." https://libmaps.nus.edu.sg.

## Rights and Restrictions

No reproduction for commercial purposes. See terms of use for details. SLA is the copyright owners of the map. Please contact sla_enquiry@sla.gov.sg if you wish to use, adapt, or reuse selected map contents.
